 I started programming by learning Javascript concurrently with C++. I remember loving the instant feedback and quick iteration of Javascript - that compile step is a real nuisance when you're just starting out. The great thing about Javascript is that it's pretty high level, so you can remain in the "world of ideas" when programming - lower-level languages can frustrate new programmers because the nuts and bolts are too complicated for them. The benefit of this "world of ideas"  is that even new people can create really cool things in no time, since so much heavy lifting is done for them. Also remember that today Javascript has frontend and backend capabilities. We are no longer limited to simple web-apps - we can build entire stacks in JS! As a precursor for learning other languages, Javascript is hit-and-miss. It can provide some of the fundamentals needed to comprehend functional languages, but its eccentricities can also lead to confusion. It's certainly not a well-designed language, but there's no denying the awesome power it brings even new programmers. Oh yeah, and it's marketable as today.

While it may be nice to be so far removed from the details, it's also important for new programmers to understand these details. Java is a great language. It has many features, it's safe and platform independent. Java's popularity will help you develop faster, because any problem you are having is likely solved somewhere on internet by others and there are lots of libraries available that you can just add to your code.With JS you can building anything: dynamic web pages, web apps, web servers, browser extensions, services, desktop apps, mobile apps, games , and etc. Learning JavaScript to produce professional-quality applications for the browser is extremely challenging.
